## Glossary
- **atcha:** honor/personal honor/glory
- **chaat’oor:** pejorative term for non-Dhakaani/non-native defilers
- **daashor:** artificer
- **dar:** people
- **duur’kala:** bard
- **gath’dar:** general term for non-Dhakaani
- **ghaal’dar:** mighty people/hobgoblin
- **golin’dar:** quick people/goblin
- **guul’dar:** strong people/bugbear
- **Kapaa'vola:** Treacherous Whisper
- **Kech Dhakaan:** Keepers of the Empire
- **marhu:** emporor
- **muut:** duty/the honor of the empire
- **paatcha:** “This is a chance to gain honor!”
- **ta muut:** "You do your duty"/"Thank you"
- **uul:** dream

## History
### The Founding of the Empire (-15,000 YK)
16,000 years ago, the Dhakaani culture emerged. Six hobgoblin kings fought over Khorvaire. Jhazaal Dhakaan was the greatest duur’kala bard of the age and the artifacts she crafted are testament to her remarkable power. Jhazaal Dhakaan crafted the dream of an empire and bound the goblinoids of the time to this dream. This Uul Dhakaan—Dream of Dhakaan—gave the ancient goblins oneness of culture and purpose, uniting them under Jhazaal Dhakaan as the first marhu—emperor of Dhakaan. The Dhakaani empire spread across Khorvaire, pushing the dwarves back into the depths of Khyber and driving the dragonborn into the eastern jungles. The Dhakaani repelled Tairnadal colonists, and drove orcs, gnolls, and other minor cultures into the wild frontiers.

### Daelkyr War & Downfall of the Empire (-5,000 YK)
The golden age of Dhakaan lasted over five millennia, with goblins ruling over the lands that would later be claimed by Galifar. As the legend suggests, this prosperous era ended with the Xoriat incursion, when the daelkyr led armies of aberrations into Khorvaire. The daelkyr destroyed Dhakaani cities and transformed goblinoids into aberrations, such as dolgaunts and dolgrims. After a long and bitter struggle, Dhakaani champions turned the tide. The orc Gatekeeper druids bound the daelkyr in Khyber, but it was Dhakaani warriors who scattered their armies and hunted down the beasts that survived. But as legend tells, the daelkyr achieved victory even in defeat. Dyrrn the Corruptor created a psychic contagion that severed goblinoids from the Uul Dhakaan, and further encouraged chaotic behavior and irrational beliefs.

Leaders among the duur’kala—dirge singers looked to for wisdom and guidance—identified the threat but couldn’t find a way to stop it; isolation was the only answer. Determined to preserve their culture, Dhakaani forces sealed themselves in subterranean fortresses, vowing to return only after the Kapaa’vola—the Treacherous Whisper—had faded. These armies called themselves the Kech Dhakaan, Keepers of the Empire— a term still used today to encompass all Dhakaani clans.

On the surface, the remnants of the empire fragmented and collapsed. As far as the Kech Dhakaan are concerned, the history of the Empire of Dhakaan came to an end the moment Dyrrn the Corruptor unleashed the Kapaa’vola. But in truth, the empire lingered for centuries after the Keepers left; the wider world doesn’t even know the term Kapaa’vola, and history books consider the fall of Dhakaan to be a long and ugly affair. Dyrrn’s curse caused paranoia and wild beliefs to flourish, further driving the survivors apart.

The discipline and knowledge of Dhakaan were lost, and the traditions of the daashor—artificers of Dhakaan— and the duur’kala were forgotten. New religions and cult practices emerged. Some tribes developed complex traditions, while others went feral.

### Human Introduction (-1,500 YK)
When human explorers found these warring tribes living in the ruins of grand cities, many assumed that the goblinoids had claimed the remnants of a human civilization they destroyed. This false narrative was used to justify countless atrocities. Humanity slowly displaced the goblinoids, seizing the lands that once belonged to Dhakaan. Goblins were often subjugated, while bugbears and hobgoblins were driven into the wilds or the upper levels of Khyber. In time scholars learned the truth—that the foundations they’d built upon were goblin cities, not human. But few people cared; in their eyes, the goblinoids were merely savages, children of the Dark Six, dangerous and cruel. It was in this time that the terms goblin, bugbear, and hobgoblin took root, even among the former dar themselves.

The oppression of goblins persisted for more than a thousand years, while bugbears and hobgoblins remained hostile forces in the fringes, dwelling in the wild lands ignored by humanity. When Galifar Wynarn began his conquest of the Five Nations, he promised freedom to any goblin who fought under his banner, Goblin soldiers played a vital role in the war that followed, and Galifar remained true to his word. Despite this freedom, goblins were still often treated with prejudice and suspicion, and denied education and other tools for success. Even today, goblins can be found in every major city of the Five Nations, but an overwhelming number live in poverty.

In the shadow of Galifar, goblinoid cultures continued to develop and evolve. The most widespread were the Ghaal’dar tribes of the Seawall Mountains. While they remained severed from the Uul Dhakaan and knew nothing of the hidden Keepers, the Ghaal’dar recovered scraps of their ancient history. The hobgoblins pursued muut and atcha—their duty to their people and their personal honor—though they knew these only as abstract concepts. They honed their anger against the chaat’oor–the non-native defilers—who had stolen their ancient lands. Some of the Ghaal’dar tribes served as mercenaries during the Last War, learning more about the chaat’oor in the process.

### Rising of the Ghaal'dar (969 YK)
And then in 969 YK, chieftain Haruuc of the Rhukaan Taash led the uprising that claimed the lands of southern Cyre and founded the nation known as Darguun. Little did he know that other eyes were watching. Khesh’dar scouts and spies had been gathering information on the world above since the beginning of the Last War. The founding of Darguun made it even easier for the Silent Folk to move within the world. The duur’kala of the Kech Dhakaan concluded that the Kapaa’vola had faded; these Ghaal’dar might be victims of the daelkyr curse, but associating with them posed no threat to the Uul Dhakaan. And so, over the last two decades, the Keepers of Dhakaan have emerged from their vaults and returned to the world above.

## Culture
### Muut and Atcha
Dhakaani society revolves around the concepts of muut and atcha. Muut is typically translated as “duty,” though it can also be seen as “the honor of the empire”—something everyone must work to maintain. Muut is what is expected of you, what you owe to your comrades. Dhakaani don’t expect thanks for doing something that has to be done; rather, they are disgusted by those who shirk their responsibilities.

By contrast, atcha refers to “personal honor” or “glory,” an opportunity to exceed what is required of you. No dar is content to simply do what is expected; the quest for atcha is a powerful driving force that urges dar to chase their full potential.

### Dar United
The culture of the Kech Dhakaan is relentlessly martial. There is no place for indolence or waste among the Dhakaani; surviving countless generations in the deep vaults required strict discipline. The young are assigned roles based on their subspecies and their aptitudes, and progress is based on performance.

Within the Kech Dhakaan, all of the dar subspecies are celebrated for their strengths and what they have to offer the empire. This is reinforced both by the principle of muut and by the Uul Dhakaan. While different subspecies fill different roles in their community, it’s important to note that among the Dhakaani, all roles are respected.

Stemming from this sense of unity, dar avoid killing other dar whenever they can. The Kech Dhakaan have different views on the future course of the empire, and each kech hopes to fill the throne. But they recognize that they are few against a world, and can’t afford to carelessly spill the blood of other dar. This principle doesn’t apply to the modern goblinoids of Darguun, the “bugbears” and “hobgoblins.” Physically, these creatures are dar, but they don’t know the Uul Dhakaan, and they don’t understand muut as the dar do.

The Dhakaani don’t subjugate other species—but not because of compassion. Rather, they consider it inefficient to try to force their values and traditions on creatures who have no concept of muut and who don’t share the Uul Dhakaan. Thus, Dhakaani tradition has always been to drive enemies out of their territories, or if such exile is impossible, to kill them. They are fine with coexistence—as long as the enemy exists over there, and as long as the dar don’t need more land.

## The Uul Dhakaan
To unite the Six Kings, Jhazaal Dhakaan created a dream they could share—a vision that bound them all together. However, this isn’t just a metaphor. When mortals sleep, their spirits touch Dal Quor and create temporary dreamscapes. Jhazaal Dhakaan bound the spirits of the dar together, creating a vast, permanent dreamscape within Dal Quor—a vision of the ideal empire. With the spirit of every dar tied to this place, when one of them sleeps, they dream of the empire and their place within it.

The Uul Dhakaan isn’t oppressive. Each dreaming dar has their own unique dreams within the Uul, and just like normal dreams, these are a place to process recent events and experiences. But the Uul Dhakaan provides a foundation that shapes and flavors those dreams, teaching and inspiring even while allowing the dar to process their own experiences. The Uul Dhakaan also retains the memories of all those who have gone before. While dreaming in the Uul Dhakaan, a warrior could experience a battle against the daelkyr that occurred thousands of years ago, fighting alongside one of the greatest heroes of that age. A smith could forge a blade alongside a legendary daashor. These things aren’t real; both the hero and the smith are dreams, pieced together through memory. And as with any dream, the dreamer likely won’t remember most of it after they wake up. But it remains in their subconscious as a source of inspiration and instinct. The dar know what the empire could and should be. They know the role they are supposed to play, the meaning of muut and atcha. And they feel the connection to the dar around them, understanding they all share that common vision.

### Roles in the Uul Dhakan
#### Chot'uul
The “dream watchers” are an order of monks who monitor the Uul Dhakaan and protect it from corruption. In addition to specialized training and mental discipline, the chot’uul employ tools to retain their full consciousness and memories while dreaming, even allowing them to bring prized possessions into the dream. An uul’kur allows them to be lucid in the dream and remember everything that transpires within it. Kra’uul are crafted items that exist in Eberron, but the idea of it is transferred into the dream, allowing the chot'uul to use it in Dal Quor. The chot’uul protect the Uul Dhakaan from quori manipulation, the corruption of the daelkyr, and other spiritual threats.

#### Duur'kala
A dirge singer’s training often includes time within the Uul Dhakaan. An uul’kur allows the novice duur’kala to experience historical events within the dream or to study with the memory-shades of duur’kala masters.

#### Uul'kala
The “dream singers” are dirge singers who specialize in walking in dreams. The deep vaults of the Kech Dhakaan are spread across Khorvaire, and the uul’kala act as their ambassadors and emissaries, maintaining communication between each kech and planning strategies. This serves a similar role to the speaking stones of House Sivis, for a duur’kala equipped with an uul’kur can report back to superiors in their dreams. While useful, this practice isn’t as widespread as the speaking stones of the Five Nations. Uul’kur are a limited resource, and even with one, it takes skill to navigate within the dream. There are kech vaults that lost their last uul’kala over the centuries in isolation, and as a result, that clan’s fate remains unknown to the present day.

## Kech Dhakaan (Clans of Dhakaan)
### Kech Draal (Keepers of the City)
The Kech Draal specialize in the transmutation effects and the shaping of earth and stone. The Kech Draal have little interest in filling the throne of the Emperor Yet to Come. While they look forward to building the next empire, they have no interest in competing with the other Keepers; they seek only the realization of the dream. They have not yet made their presence felt in the world.

The golin’dar play a more central role in the Kech Draal than in many clans. While the clan is formally led by the dirge singer Kuula Dhakaan and the warlord Druun Dhakaan, the ghaal’dar consult with a golin’dar council on all major decisions. The golin’dar Taala is the senior voice on this council, respected for her wisdom and skill.

### Kech Ghaalrac (Clan of Heroes)
Instead of retreating from the Kapaa’vola, Khaas Dhakaan, had no interest in hiding. Gathering the greatest heroes of the age—Dhakaani champions, Khesh’dar assassins, Gatekeeper orcs—Khaas led his army into the depths of Khyber, and into the demiplane that served as the prison of Dyrrn the Corruptor. Khaas swore to end the Treacherous Whisper and to recover artifacts stolen by Dyrrn and its minions—artifacts that Khaas believed could restore the splintering empire.

Khaas and his champions were never heard from again, neither in the waking world or in the Uul Dhakaan, and it was assumed that they were lost. In truth, they were trapped within Dyrrn’s demiplane, fighting an endless struggle against the minions of the daelkyr. Time moves strangely in Dyrrn’s realm, and by the reckoning of the Ghaalrac, it has been less than three centuries since they set out on their mission. Trapped in a realm of madness, the Ghaalrac have blended Dhakaani and Gatekeeper techniques with the symbionts of the daelkyr, with results that others might find horrifying. They have crafted powerful living weapons and artifacts, along with magebred champions with unnatural powers—armored bugbears with the regenerative abilities of trolls, goblin assassins with the ability to slip through space. They have found ways to bind aberrations to their will, and have forced beholders and grells to serve them.

The descendants of the Gatekeeper orcs that ventured into Khyber with the Kech Ghaalrac remain to this day, having found their own place in the clan’s caste system as specialists in druidic magic. However, the traditions carried by these onceGatekeepers vary greatly from their surface counterparts, in part because they’ve been cut off from the natural world.

Now, after centuries of struggle in Khyber, the Kech Ghaalrac have returned. The current leader—who also uses the name Khaas—possesses what the Ghaalrac call Ur’taash, the “First Crown.” It’s said that this was the final creation of Jhazaal Dhakaan, forged to unite the empire; it protects his mind, allows him to communicate with Ghaalrac squads across great distances, and possesses powerful coercive abilities. Khaas claims to have torn this crown from Dyrrn’s grip as he dealt a mortal blow to the Corruptor. He believes that it is the Ghaalrac who broke the power of the Treacherous Whisper, and that only they can restore the Empire of Dhakaan.

Khaas and the other leaders of the Kech Ghaalrac carry the names of heroes of ancient Dhakaan: Torrm of the Gatekeepers, the master assassin known only as Khesh, the mighty guul’dar Korrga. The original heroes are long dead, but these dar claim to be their descendants and carry their ancient weapons. They possess tremendous power, and they intend to use it. They aren’t part of the Uul Dhakaan as experienced by the other Keepers, but they have their own version of the dream that sustained them through the long war, and believe that it is the other clans who have lost sight of the dream.

### Kech Hashraac (Keepers of Thunder)
Siege warfare and combat engineering are the specialties of the Kech Hashraac. They use conventional firearems and cannons, enhanced artillery, and alchemical explosives. The Kech Hashraac have yet to reveal their presence to the world at large.

The warlord Duul Hashraac leads the clan; he is noteworthy both for being a daashor as opposed to a common warrior, and for using his clan name instead of “Dhakaan” as his sobriquet. Duul is proud of what his people have achieved; whether he seeks the throne or serves as kingmaker, he believes the Kech Hashraac hold the keys to Dhakaani victory.

### Kech Nasaar (Keepers of Night)
Long ago, interaction with the Aereni line of Vol led to the dirge singer Iraala becoming the first dar vampire. She shared this gift with her lover, the warlord Muurat. In the centuries that passed, the two were placed in charge of the covert operations of the empire. Spying and assassination remained the domain of the Khesh’dar, but the Kech Nasaar served both as internal security and as commandos specializing in guerilla tactics and psychological warfare. It was the Kech Nasaar who first recognized the threat of the Kapaa’vola, and set the Keeper seclusion in motion.

Over their long seclusion, the Kech Nasaar have continued to study unconventional paths of warfare. Under the leadership of Iraala and Muurat, the Nasaar have also explored the arts of necromancy. Iraala and Muurat continue to lead the clan, giving a direct tie to the ancient empire. The edict of a long-dead emperor asserted that no dead creature could wear the imperial crown; while the services of the Nasaar were valued, the dead are severed from the Uul Dhakaan and cannot draw on the wisdom of the past or see Jhazaal’s dream. 

Despite being cut off from the Uul Dhakaan, Iraala and Muurat remember the actual glory of the fallen empire, and could be the truest devotees of the concepts of muut and atcha, placing the needs of the empire above their personal ambitions. As in ancient times, they might seek to guide the living emperor, and to ensure the Dhakaani Empire follows the proper course.

### Kech Ruuska (Keepers of the Tiger)
The Ruuska dar fill much the same role that House Vadalis does for the Five Nations: tending and training the many beasts of the empire, while always searching for—or creating—new beasts to fill a need. Ruuska is the Goblin word for “tiger,” and tigers and dire tigers are often used as cavalry in the vanguard of Dhakaani armies. But the Kech Ruuska breed all manner of beasts, from fierce guardians to clever messengers and simple livestock.

Just as there are soldiers in every kech, there are tenders in every vault who maintain the beasts of that vault. However, the Kech Ruuska specialize in breeding and training them, producing the finest Beast Master rangers, and keeping the widest range of exotic creatures in their arsenals. The Ruuska also work with magebreeding and may have produced entirely new beasts or monstrosities previously unknown on the surface. While the Ruuska don’t have a spiritual bond to the natural world, they might have developed a form of druid—a Moon druid serving as a specialist in assuming animal forms and controlling beasts. The Ruuska have also experimented with lycanthropy.

The Kech Ruuska are led by the Beast Master warlord Lhaar Dhakaan and the duur’kala Oruul. The Kech Shaarat are putting considerable pressure on the Ruuska to support their claim to the crown. It remains to be seen if Lhaar bows to these threats, or whether the Ruuska seek an alliance that lets them turn the tables on the powerful Shaarat.

### Kech Shaarat (Keepers of the Sword)
A clan of proud and deadly warriors. The leaders believe that while it may be possible to use the Darguuls, ultimately, they are not dar and must be treated as enemies.

The Kech Shaarat are the largest of the Keeper clans. Founded by the Warlord of the South in the final days of the empire, the Shaarat possess an artifact known as Skai Shaarat—the Great Blade—a sword handed down from warlord to warlord since the days of the Six Kings. While they lack the exotic specialties of the other clans, the Kech Shaarat excel at war. The deep vault of the Kech Shaarat is tied to a demiplane in Khyber known as the Ironlands. This provided them with access to resources and space denied to the other clans, including the byeshk ore the Dhakaani prize for their weapons, while also keeping them on a constant war footing. Of all the Keepers, the Kech Shaarat have the finest Forge Adept artificers, as well as talented Battle Smiths—though the Dhakaani don’t generally employ constructs, these artificers have created innovative steel defenders. On the other hand, the Kech Shaarat have not emphasized the role of the duur’kala as much as other clans, and have a weaker bardic tradition.

The Kech Shaarat have emerged into the open and are the most active of the Dhakaani tribes. The warlord Ruus Dhakaan has reclaimed several ancient Dhakaani fortresses in the Seawall Mountains, and is working to refortify these ruins. In the course of this expansion, the Kech Shaarat have already absorbed a lesser clan—the Kech Nozhii, who maintained the treasury of the empire—which has expanded their resources. They are actively pressuring the Kech Ruuska to submit to an alliance acknowledging Ruus as the Emperor Yet to Come, and Shaarat warriors have a bitter rivalry with the Kech Volaar.

Ruus has sent representatives to Rhukaan Draal and pledged to support Lhesh Haruuc, but this is a ruse designed to bide time and to take the measure of an enemy. Ruus hasn’t revealed the true nature of his people or the full scale of his forces to the Ghaal’dar, and most Darguuls believe the Kech Shaarat are a Ghaal’dar clan with strange traditions. House Deneith is keen to gain the services of these mysterious warriors, but Ruus Dhakaan refuses to have any dealings with the chaat’oor.

Ruus Dhakaan is a brilliant strategist and charismatic leader. He earned Skai Shaarat with his courage and skill, and should never be underestimated. While he’s determined to claim the imperial throne, he’s also concerned with muut and the good of the empire; he will pressure other Keepers to support his claim, but won’t butcher his own kind. However, he’s ruthless when it comes to dealing with chaat’oor, and doubts whether the modern “goblins” can be redeemed. They may be close enough to dar that they could be worthy servants, but he’s considering whether it’s simpler to slaughter the Darguuls once the dar are united.

### Kech Uul (Keepers of the Dream)
The Kech Uul are a small clan. Their vault is a fortified monastery hidden deep in Khyber. This is the seat of the chot’uul, the monks who watch over the Uul Dhakaan and protect the dreams of the empire. This clan also has the largest number of uul’kala bards, and knows the most about how to produce dream keys and dreambound objects.

The Kech Uul have yet to return to the surface of Khorvaire. Its people spend much of their time within the Uul Dhakaan itself, using drugs and meditation to enter the dream even while waking. The monks of the Kech Uul are devoted to protecting the dream from outside influences, but they’re also experts in navigating the dream itself; if a Dhakaani dreamer is searching for a particular memory or wishes to speak with the dreamvestige of an ancient hero, a Kech Uul monk can be an invaluable guide. Likewise, the uul’kala of the Dream Keepers are the backbone of long-distance communication between clans; the uul’kala maintain message stations at various points within the dream, and can pass a message from one dreamer to another.

The name of the Kech Uul’s current leader is unknown outside the clan. Uul dar often wear masks or veils; they do not seek atcha, and desire only to help others achieve Jhazaal’s dream.

### Kech Volaar (Keepers of the Word)
An isolated clan of scholars with talented duur’kala. Some of the Kech Volaar are searching for a way to reconcile to these lost kin, expanding the Uul Dhakaan, undoing the damage of the Kapaa’vola and restoring its victims to the fold. Others among the Volaar argue that coexistence should be considered, that the isolationism of the empire must be reconsidered in the face of the widespread, powerful nations of the modern age.

The Kech Volaar believe that knowledge is power. Their deep vault holds scrolls and tablets recording thousands of years of imperial history. While they have strong warriors and a proud martial tradition, the Volaar value the song over the blade and have the strongest duur’kala of any clan. They usually have an ongoing series of tattoos that reflect the bearer’s life and accomplishments.

While the Volaar weaponsmiths aren’t a match for those of the Kech Shaarat, the clan leaders recognize the value of arcane magic over pure mundane might. The Volaar have long worked to push the limits of duur’kala magic, and to master the techniques that created wonders such as the Uul Dhakaan and the greatest artifacts of the old empire. The Volaar have experimented with warlocks—working with supernatural patrons under carefully controlled conditions—and sought to cultivate sorcerers when they have appeared among the dar populace. Since their return to the surface, the Kech Volaar are working both to recover the greatest artifacts and treasures of the empire, and to study the arcane techniques of the modern gath’dar. Where the Kech Shaarat believe that Dhakaani might can sweep aside any enemy, the Volaar recognize the arcane power wielded by the Five Nations and the dragonmarked houses, and are doing everything they can to study and master this unfamiliar science.

Perhaps because of this, the Kech Volaar are also the most conciliatory of the Keeper clans. They are the most willing to interact with the gath’dar, both because they recognize the need to understand these possible enemies, and in the hopes that some form of coexistence may be possible. Like the Kech Uul, Volaar leader Tuura Dhakaan wonders if the Uul Dhakaan can expand to incorporate other creatures—if the empire can unite gath’dar as it does the dar.

Despite these hopes, the Kech Volaar are devoted to the dar above all else. They are the Keepers of History, and they know the sacrifices their ancestors had to make and the bitter wars against the chaat’or and the taarn (elves). They are wise and willing to seek all paths to prosperity, but will never surrender the dream of the eternal empire.

Tuura Dhakaan has revealed herself to the world, and has sent representatives to the court of Lhesh Haruuc. Like the Kech Shaarat, the Volaar have concealed their true history and power. Volaar duur’kala often travel among the Ghaal’dar sharing stories, helping to educate them about their glorious past and the traditions of muut and atcha; this ties to Tuura’s hopes that the “goblins” can be redeemed and drawn back to their past glory. Tuura is determined to claim the throne of the Emperor Yet to Come; she hopes to find the strength needed to compel the Kech Shaarat through reclaiming powerful artifacts and building allies.

### Khesh’dar (Silent Folk)
Under Dhakaani tradition, the golin’dar—goblins—are traditionally laborers and artisans. While the guul’dar and ghaal’dar train for war, the golin’dar maintain the hearth. But there is a force that stands outside this tradition, lurking in the shadows of the Dhakaani Empire. These are the Khesh’dar— the Silent Folk—golin’dar who use their speed and cunning as spies, scouts, and assassins.

While the Khesh’dar are part of the Uul Dhakaan, they have always remained separate from its traditions. They have always served the emperor and their warlords, but they do so in their own time. Their refuges have always been hidden, even before the Kapaa’vola. The ascetic Khesh’dar aren’t compelled by money or power; they choose when to offer aid, and set a fair price on their services. The Khesh’dar take no sides in disputes between clans, and they do not seek to rule; in the present day they serve both the Kech Shaarat and the Kech Volaar. However, they don’t accept missions that they see as threatening the empire itself; as a result, they rarely accept a charge to kill a warlord or a duur’kala.

Because of this long tradition of secrecy, even the warlords of the Kech Dhakaan don’t know where the vaults of the Khesh’dar are located, or just how many of the Silent Folk are out there. Goblins are spread throughout Khorvaire and most of the great cities of the Five Nations have significant goblin populations, and this provides an easy opportunity for the Khesh’dar to move freely throughout the modern world without drawing attention. The Khesh’dar have been active throughout the last century, spying on the chaat’oor and building up resources and safe houses across the Five Nations. They’ve recruited many eyes among the modern city goblins and the goblins of Darguun, though these contacts rarely understand exactly who they are dealing with. The Khesh’dar likewise have spies and agents among the golin’dar of every Keeper clan, ensuring that there are few secrets hidden from the Silent Folk.

The Khesh’dar are split into two primary traditions. The Taarka’khesh (“Silent Wolves”) are swift scouts, experts in wilderness reconnaissance and targeted strikes. The Taarka’khesh typically rely on worg cavalry; many develop an unusual primal bond with their worg companions, and the golin’dar view the worgs as partners, not beasts. Though worgs don’t have an innate tie to the Uul Dhakaan, the Beast Master rangers of the Taarka’khesh can summon their worg companions to them while dreaming.

The second Khesh’dar tradition is that of the Shaarat’khesh (“Silent Blades”), spies and assassins trained to operate within cities. Both usually operate covertly, disguised to blend in with the local goblin population. However, each order has a distinctive half-mask that is worn over the lower face during formal interactions.

## The Emperor Yet to Come
The last emperor of Dhakaan was lost to the Kapaa’vola before the Kech Dhakaan descended into the depths, and no single kech has the power to create a new emperor. The duur’kala speak of the Emperor Yet To Come, with the belief that once all the Keepers rise, a single emperor will somehow win universal acclaim, uniting them all against the chaat’oor. But whether they be lhesh, duur’kala, or daashor, it’s unclear what will bring this to pass. The Kech Uul believe that when a single dar has the support of the majority, the Uul Dhakaan will reveal them—that the emperor will be proclaimed and crowned within the universal dream.

The Keepers are devising their own paths to winning allies or the throne, and there may be Keeper clans that have yet to be revealed. For now, the Kech Dhakaan are focused on gathering information and competing among themselves. Once they unite behind a single leader, they’ll have to decide how to deal with the Darguuls, the dragonmarked houses, and the Five Nations.