**Author:** Lord Obnal Caldyn (M human)

## Synopsis
A collection of pieces of the Prophecy assembled by Korranberg scholar Ohnal Caldyn. When this first came out, many people tried to use it to gain insight into the future to better their own lives, but failed to do so.

Even as a child, Ohnal could talk to a dragonmarked individual, or see a dragonshard, or study the skies, and he would make a prediction that at first seemed to go unfulfilled—only to be confirmed later in a different context. Taking to the life of an adventurer, Ohnal made it his mission to gather knowledge and insight into the draconic Prophecy. He began to understand that his ability to see the shifting patterns of reality tapped into a force that flowed through dragons, going back to the very first great Progenitor dragons whose forms created the world. The notes that Ohnal Caldyn recorded in his red dragonhide-covered tome became known as the Caldyn Fragments .

The most frequent mistake made by students of the Prophecy is to use “draconic Prophecy” and “Caldyn Fragments” interchangeably. They are not the same. The draconic Prophecy is an ever-changing and ephemeral force that, as far as anyone can tell, moves like a shadow behind reality, both reflecting and predicting the ebb and flow of all things living on, above, and beneath Eberron. The Caldyn Fragments are the result of Ohnal Caldyn’s efforts to capture a small part of the Prophecy in a written form that could be easily understood by humans and manipulated to produce desired outcomes. Caldyn founded the organization known as the Crimson Codex (named after the red dragonskin journal in which he recorded his prophetic fragments) to use his insights to promote peace and stability throughout Eberron and possibly support the reunification of Galifar. But as people outside the organization learned about the existence of the Caldyn Fragments , others scrambled to obtain copies of the work that could supposedly predict the future.

The Codex believes that knowledge is by far the most powerful weapon, and that the Prophecy is the ultimate knowledge. To that end, the Crimson Codex has a network of spies and informants within all the major civilized governments of Khorvaire. This network ensures that treaties are upheld and peace remains a priority. Of the four factions pursuing the Caldyn Fragments , the Codex has the strongest connection to the dragons and their kin. Like the great wyrms, the Codex is capable of waiting many years for plans to come to fruition. Although the Codex is a global operation with interests on each of Eberron’s continents, it continues to focus considerable resources in Xen’drik in pursuit of the ultimate prize: the potent knowledge contained in the Caldyn Fragments.