[[Breland]]
1. **Type:** Castle/Fort
2. **Population:** 450

Grim and functional, Orcbone is the central base for the Westwind Riders, a mobile company charged with guarding Breland’s western expanse. Sitting astride the gap between the Graywall Mountains and Silver Lake, Orcbone has been the focus of the fi ercest fi ghting between Breland, Droaam, and the Eldeen Reaches. The stone keep is surrounded by wide ditches designed to channel invading troops into narrow formations so the hammer of Brelish cavalry can crush them against the anvil of the fortress’s walls. Without other natural defenses, the keep has come under savage attack time and again, and royal blood has been spilled defending it against vastly greater forces.

The halls of Orcbone have been quiet since the end of the Last War. Lord Veirner ir’Tajar (NG male human aristocrat 4/wizard 5) commands the keep and its infantry. He strongly disagrees with the captain of the Westwind Riders, Yurell ir’Iff (LG female halfelf ranger 7), about the security situation along the border. Veirner wants to take a more active stance, sending scouts across the border to disrupt the socalled “raiders” who continue to slip in and out of the country. Yurell insists that her riders cannot violate the Treaty of Thronehold, and should only strike once the thinly disguised Droaam units have entered Breland proper. Veirner has been unable to drive his point home with Yurell or gain Boranel’s permission to engage in active raiding. Now Veirner is courting the Sentinel Marshals of House Deneith to deputize the riders to pursue bandits on behalf of the dragonmarked house.