[[Breland]]
1. **Type:** Castle/Fort
2. **Population:** 800

The fortress of Sterngate protects Breland from Darguun invaders. It sits at the end of Marguul Pass, and for more than six hundred years it has defended the nation from marauding goblinoids and other threats from the Seawall Mountains. Today, the militia assigned to Sterngate watches for Darguun warbands and sometimes has to drive such bands back into the mountains from which they emerge. The frequency of such incursions, despite the Treaty of Thronehold, demonstrates the fragile nature of the current Darguun government. Captain Toris (LN female changeling, fighter 3), a veteran of the Last War, distinguished herself as a goblin fighter to be reckoned with. Her hatred for goblinoids sometimes clouds her judgment, but King Boranel rests easier with Sterngate under Toris’s command. The militia also keeps an eye on the Zilargo border, but relations with the gnome nation are so good as to make strict vigilance there unnecessary.

Captain Eredenn Davoh (NG male human fi ghter 6) knows that his post at Sterngate puts him at the very forefront of the new cold war following the signing of the Thronehold Accords. Sterngate guards the broad western end of Marguul Pass, and it is his job to see to it that Darguun raiders cannot slip past the fortress into Breland’s interior. Sterngate is now the centerpiece of a massive array of berms, ditches, and pit traps designed to funnel travelers to the castle gates and prevent anyone from crossing into Breland on foot without the fort’s knowledge. Mounted patrols sweep from the castle to check for signs of illicit passage, and Eredenn’s frequent and inventive drills have kept the garrison here alert and in high spirits despite the relative calm. There have been lapses, however, and Eredenn is happy to hire outsiders with good credentials to follow up on incursions that have slipped beyond his immediate grasp. Such bounties make the castle a bustling center for adventurers, and a gathering place for those interested in stirring up a little trouble of their own on the Darguun side of the border.