[[Breland]]
1. **Type:** Nature

A great tropical rain forest fills the southeastern portion of Breland, from the Dagger River in the west to the Trolan River (now part of Zilargo) in the east, from the Howling River in the north to the continent’s southern coast. The King’s Forest is a hunting preserve that once belonged to the Galifar king and now falls under the protection of Breland’s crown. The Knight Rangers patrol the rain forest, watching for poachers and trying to keep in check the bandits and brigands who hide within its depths. Since the Treaty of Thronehold, the eastern portion of the forest has been part of Zilargo; mindful of this, the Brelish rangers rarely cross the border in pursuit of their duties. Therefore, it isn’t unusual for bands of brigands to fl ee across the border as they try to evade the rangers.

Once, the King’s Forest covered the entire southern half of Breland, cut in half by the mighty Dagger River. Logging and cultivation have reduced the forest’s size over the centuries, and it became necessary for a royal decree to preserve the portion of the forest that remains. All kinds of tropical plants, insects, and wildlife fill the King’s Forest. Hunting, except by permit or royal invitation, is strictly prohibited. In the fall season, the king and his court, as well as honored guests, enter the King’s Forest to participate in a Great Hunt. Exotic animals of all types are the subjects of the Great Hunt, and King Boranel loves to let his hunting tigers run at the head of his party. Sometimes a dire or horrid animal falls to the hunters (a stuffed horrid ape, killed by King Boranel during the Great Hunt of 966, decorates a hall in Brokenblade Castle), but more often they wind up with a variety of exotic but mundane birds, lizards, and mammals.

The Jungle Boys, a band of bloodthirsty brigands, hide within the King’s Forest. The band is variously estimated to have anywhere from a dozen men to as many as a hundred brigands and a mock court of beggars, harlots, and other hangers-on. An outlaw known as Tree Viper (CE male half-orc, ranger 1/rogue 2) leads the Jungle Boys. The band periodically raids the thorps, villages, and plantations that line the edge of the forest, and sometimes it ambushes caravans and travelers as they move through the forest. The Knight Rangers have tangled with the Jungle Boys on more than one occasion, but they haven’t been able to capture their leader or put an end to their marauding.