[[Breland]]
1. **Type:** Town
2. **Population:** 3,600

A border town during the Last War, Cragwar changed hands no less than nine times, being held by Thrane, Breland, and Aundair. The site of numerous bloody battles, the town would have been abandoned long ago if not for the rich veins of silver and jewels found in the eastern Blackcaps. Cragwar serves as the base camp and trading center for dozens of smaller mining villages reaching back into the mountains. Those mines are the single largest source of mithral in western Khorvaire. House Kundarak’s influence has kept the town running and even profitable despite the battles to control the area. House Cannith also has a modest guildhall in the village, having always been a major buyer of rare metals to stock its forges.

In addition to the monsters that come down out of the mountains or up from the depths of Khyber through the mines, the lives of ordinary citizens are sometimes threatened by the machinations of the Aurum. Two members of the Aurum’s gold concord make their home in Cragwar— Daeluse d’Kundarak (LE female dwarf aristocrat 3/rogue 2/dragonmark heir 4) ensures the safety of the Aurum’s interests in the Blackcaps, and the steady fl ow of money into their coffers. Zeed (NE male changeling rogue 2/sorcerer 4/master inquisitive 2) runs the town’s limited underworld, and acts as an information broker and arms dealer. Zeed’s ambitions to start a war, with the goal of eventually securing southern Thrane for the Aurum, are an audacious attempt to elevate himself to the platinum concord, and do not have the full support of the Shadow Cabinet, which generally prefers more cautious advances. Zeed’s activities have also attracted the attention of the King’s Citadel, which is currently considering sending in new agents or even a few trusted outsiders who would be unknown to Zeed and his minions.