[[Breland]]
1. **Type:** Town
2. **Population:** 3,100

Throughout the Last War, this town was beset by armies from Thrane, Cyre, and Karrnath. Vathirond’s residents still hold grudges against these close foreign neighbors. However, their attention of late has been focused on the Mournland. Nameless horrors have begun to slip into Breland from the east at an alarming rate, and Brelish soldiers and adventurers stationed in Vathirond are usually the first to contend with these threats.

The town of Vathirond, situated on the southern banks of the Brey River, serves as a watchpost and trading center. It sits across the border from the nation of Thrane, and near the line that once separated Breland from Cyre. If a place in Breland suffered more than its share during the Last War, Vathirond would be that place. It constantly struggled against both Thrane and Cyre at different times during the war, and even contended with river raiders from Karrnath once or twice over the century of fi ghting. Now the town tries to put aside its hatred for Thrane as it works to honor the Treaty of Thronehold. With one eye kept toward the north, it turns another eye to the Mournland. Nameless horrors have begun to slip into Breland from the east at an alarming rate, and Vathirond border patrols seek to either prevent this or raise an alarm when something they can’t deal with appears out of the deadgray mist that seems to mark where Breland ends and the Mournland begins.

The Brey River provides the main transportation into and out of Vathirond, though an Orien trade road connects the town with Starilaskur to the west. The eastern end of the road stretches into the Mournland, disappearing beyond the mist as though beckoning travelers to visit the ruins and wreckage of Cyre. While the mist has not moved any closer since the Mournland came into existence, the presence of the dead nation eats away at the inhabitants of Vathirond. The town has lost more than a quarter of its population to disease, rampaging horrors, or because the people have fl ed to fi nd safer, less desolate ground elsewhere in the kingdom. Since the death of Cyre and the birth of the Mournland, Vathirond’s population has dwindled from more than four thousand to its present level of just over three thousand. King Boranel sees this development as a trend he must fi nd a way to change before this strategic location turns into a ghost town.