[[Breland]]
1. **Type:** Ruins

Near the eastern edge of the Silln Highlands, a great gash splits the stone for ten miles inland to the sea. The goblins of Dhakaan discovered this gorge and built a great city into the walls, taking advantage of the natural harbor it created to establish a thriving port. Even today, great statues and elaborate arches decorate the entrances to a labyrinth of caverns and dwellings. Natural streams flow over the edge of the gorge and are channeled into cisterns. Records from other goblinoid ruins speak of Yarkunn Draal as one of the shining jewels of the empire, the seat of a great house, and a center of mighty magics. Few artifacts have been retrieved from Yarkuun Draal, however, and the city is believed to be cursed.

Far from being a dead city, Yarkuun Draal seethes with life—or the twisted mockeries of life created by the daelkyr. Gardens and lush palms decorate the city’s many airy walkways and balconies, but they are all poisonous or capable of moving to attack visitors or each other. This feral ecology should consume itself within months, if not weeks, but their numbers are replenished daily by the city’s true master, the daelkyr Avassh.

At the heart of Yarkuun Draal, in a large courtyard open to the sky, rests a dimensional seal forged by the Gatekeepers millennia ago. The seal suppresses one of the few true gateways to Xoriat, a passageway created solely for the invasion of the world. After the Daelkyr War, Avassh was able to partially corrupt the seal, allowing it to influence the lands around the city. Unable to breach the seal, he instead baits the trap of Yarkuun Draal with countless horrors and the occasional potent symbiote. In his own mind, the presence of such treasures and so many monsters is sure to attract adventurers who can be forced to do what the daelkyr cannot—destroy the Gatekeepers’ seal and open the world to invasion once more.